Question: https://wicked-problems.github.io/workshop/jahan_rosling

## Response: Jahan and Rosling
02/04/2020

Selim Jahan stated that human potential is maximized when the richness of life is balanced with the richness of the economy. He separated human development into two sides, the breadth measure and the focus measure. THe breadth measure is where you have different measures of human development side by side with each other so you have a more comprehensive idea of human development. Things like child mortality rate and infant mortality rate are included in this measure. The focus measure of human development has three dimensions: a long and healthy life, knowledge, and a decent standard of living. Some of the issues that Selim Jahan feels should be targeted are: youth work, which is a big problem in a lot of different areas, and gender-related work, in which women tend to be the caregivers in most countries. Agriculture work is important because that is how most people are employed in most countries, and work during and after crisis is important.

Hans Rosling had an example where for Brazil, there was great economic progress without also helping the people's quality of life, whereas South Korea started made progress much more quickly by being healthy first, then making economic progress. He also had an example where the United Arab states invested in health, and made quick progress despite falling oil prices. Rosling's point is that we tend to focus far too much on the economy and not enough on the people, when both are necessary for growth. His point with the example is that focusing on health rather than wealth has a far greater effect than we tend to give it credit for. He also made a good point on how there is no longer any difference between "us" and "them" in that life expectancy and family size no longer separates us from each other.

Selim Jahan's main idea is that the people aspect of human development tends to be overlooked and neglected. By mentioning what areas of human development could be targeted, he offered many different directions we could take to make an even greater impact. Including information about the breadth and focus measure of human development also allows us to have a more comprehensive view of how an area is doing. That being said, I will admit I had a difficult time grasping his point throughout the presentation. Yes, there are two measures of human development. Yes, youth, gender, and agriculture are important. So what? Are we just supposed to keep it in the back of our mind while we continue to take the same actions? I feel like I got the point in the beginning of the first podcast. Either that, or I failed to properly identify the main idea.

Hans Rosling's thesis was, in my opinion, much more useful. Instead of saying, "don't forget the people," he's saying, "focusing on the people first encourages much faster progress overall." The whole purpose of human development is to "develop humans", so simply saying the people are important doesn't resonate with me particularly well. However, saying focusing on health will make a country progress faster than focusing on wealth is novel, not something people would expect. Not to rag on China, but that's the first example I can think of that tunnel visions on the economy over the people's standard of living. I have never considered this myself, but having been to China personally I can wholeheartedly agree that they would probably make greater economic progress if they focused more on health. The message for both of them is the same: focus on the human aspect of human development. Hans Rosling's thesis is the one people would actually listen to though.
