  1. In the reading today (Stevens et al.) the authors use a technique to produce a high resolution description of the distribution of human populations across the globe. What is the name of the technique and describe in general and basic terms how it works?

The authors use a semi-automated dasymetric modeling approach called "Random Forest". They use a dasymetric redistribution approach, and use census data and a weighting scheme based on a "Random Forest". From what I can tell, that basically means they determine weights to the data depending on how fine-scale the data is, how reliable it is, and other factors they previously mentioned through the "Random Forest" nonparametric predictive model.

  2. The random forest method used by the authors is a machine learning algorithm (ensemble method). In general terms, what is a machine learning algorithm? Within the context of this study what distinguishes a data science, machine learning method (such as random forest) from previous classical statistical approaches to describing and analyzing phenomenon and events?

A machine learning algorithm builds an algorithm from the data provided to it, and uses that to predict outputs from data it hasn't seen before. Machine learning is different from the classical statistical approaches in that it is based not on patterns or equations we already know, but found based off of a sample of the data they have. Also, many of the classical statistical approaches were more for determining correlation, whereas machine learning algorithms use a correlation detected in the data to predict values for other data.

  3. In the reading, the authors use a number of geospatial covariates as predictors in their machine learning method. What were these geospatial covariates and approximately how big of a data set did they represent (in general terms)? What is the significance of big data in the estimation of machine learning methods for inferring the correlates and drivers of human population distributions?

There were a lot of different variables mentioned. They found 38 covariates for VNM, 42 for KHM, and 44 for KEN. Some data they took used were networks of roads and waterways, large water bodies, settlement or populated place locations, protected area delineations, and facility locations(health clinics, hospitals, schools). There was a whole table of variables they used to assign weights to, which includes cultivated lands, trees, shrubs, urban areas, light at night, precipitation, and many more. Big data is absolutely vital for machine learning methods in inferring whatever it is that needs to be inferred, correlates and drivers of human population distributions included.

  4. The authors’ results present a remarkable improvement over previous geospatial descriptions at very high resolution, of the distribution of the human population. Within the context of human development in LMICs, what is the significance of having a highly accurate description of where each person is located across planet earth?

Having this sort of information allows one to make more informed decisions on infrastructures, such as where to place facilities, as well as what people need help and how best to get it to them. It would allow politicians to know the most effective areas to target their campaigns, and terrorists to know what targets would cause the most damage. With any sort of change one would like to make, knowing the distance to and density of people in an area, along with other variables such as accessibility and demographics, is always ideal, and oftentimes completely necessary.

  5. Within the context of human development in LMICs, what is the relevance to your area of investigation in having a highly accurate description of where each household and person is located across planet earth?

My area of investigation is how mobility affects the spread of disease, so knowing where each household and person is located is extremely useful. In fact, the first step to tracking mobility of people is to get their initial location. Therefore, I would say having a highly accurate description of where everyone is located is extremely relevant to my area of investigation. However, more than that, I need accurate information on where people are continuously through time. Accuracy in time and location is extremely fine-scale data, which is to be expected as it literally adds another dimension to it.
